"OHDSI is a brilliant open-science effort that has established a collaboration among more than 150 large organizations. Collectively these organizations carry healthcare data for a staggering half billion lives. OHDSI’s pièce de résistance is its design of an open data model that specifies strict coding, privacy and security standards that all collaborators have agreed to adopt. The work enables the unification of data from multiple sources to provide the data mass, reproducibility testing and statistical power required by analytics, especially those powered by AI methods. The OHDSI effort has already produced novel approaches to large-scale data analyses and answered important clinical questions. However, it is just beginning, and much more remains to be done. The Book of OHDSI will enable other organizations to add to the analytic ferment, and to the data mass, needed to answer pressing analytic and clinical questions." - Clem McDonald, MD, Emeritus Indiana Distinguished Professor of Medicine


The prevalence of electronic health data provides us the opportunity to make decisions that enhance both health and healthcare for both the present and future generations. The Observational Health Data Sciences and Informatics (OHDSI) collaboration is on the forefront of that mission.

Akin to Odysseus's arduous journey in Homer's epic poem, OHDSI (pronounced "odyssey") is establishing the challenging path from real-world data to real-world evidence. The OHDSI community, an international network of stakeholders from varied disciplines, shares the singular goal of generating this evidence in a collaborative setting.

The Book of OHDSI provides the roadmap to understand the journey. You will learn about the OHDSI community and its tools, ranging from the OMOP Common Data Model and Standard Vocabularies to large-scale analytic tools like ATLAS and the Methods Library. You will learn our community-determined best practices to generate quality evidence, and how our methods allow the execution of high-quality, time-efficient research in a network that includes more than 100 databases.

The Book of OHDSI is not meant to simply help you understand the journey. We hope that when you learn our approach and see the benefits of fusing collaboration with an always-evolving set of analytic tools, you will choose to Join the Journey with us.